hi everyone Lucy here and today we're
looking more at the TOEFL listening test
and specifically in this lesson we're
going to look at conversation skill for
opinion so in this lesson first we're
going to describe the task next we're
going to talk about the method then
we're going to do some practice on your
own so the purpose of this lesson is to
understand how to complete the listening
opinion question type okay so so far
we've looked at detail we've looked at
purpose we've looked at a function and
this time we're going to be looking at
opinion okay so let's figure out exactly
what is involved in this task so in this
task you're going to identify the
opinion or attitude of one of the
speakers in a conversation okay so
what's the method well our first step as
always is to listen to the audio and
take notes and remember when you're
taking notes you don't need to write
full sentences in fact you shouldn't
write full sentences you want to write
down the key words and key ideas of the
conversation okay and remember
note-taking skills are extremely
important and if you don't feel
confident in them make sure you do some
practice okay now if you don't already
make sure you have a pen and paper
available alright so we're going to
listen to the audio and take notes all
right are you ready here's the
conversation hi is this the student
accommodation office yes how can I help
you well I've got a bit of a problem I'm
staying in the Richard bright dormitory
and on Tuesday though alright I came in
and told me I have to move out this
Friday really how long have you been
staying in the dorm for the last two
months okay so you've been doing summer
classes yeah I've been doing that
academic writing and you didn't realize
that your accommodation was only for the
summer no I thought it was for the whole
academic year hmm so you're looking for
a new dorm yes well I'm afraid at this
stage all the dorms are full there might
be some students who don't show up at
the start of the semester but we won't
know until that time comes I suggest you
look for private accommodation and a
share
you can check out the housing boards
around campus there are usually students
looking for someone to fill a room
you'll have to share with three or four
other students mills aren't included in
the price as they are the university
dorms and you'll have to contribute to
the electricity bills ah see it's really
your best option at this stage okay
thanks for your help okay so hopefully
you were able to take some useful notes
from that let's take a look at our
sample notes from that conversation so
you can see we have quite a few but none
of them are very long just a few words
maybe a phrase here or there but
definitely no full sentences so we have
things like move out on Friday to months
summer classes notice that we use the
word a com instead of accommodation
right this is a great way to save time
when you're taking notes just write down
abbreviations anyway to keep it nice and
short okay so here are our notes now our
next step is to read the question okay
and remember you're going to have to
listen to the audio and take notes
before you read the question so you
don't know exactly what it is you're
looking for until you see the questions
so here is our question so it says what
is the students attitude towards a
shared house is it a the student thinks
the accommodation officer is not very
helpful by suggesting the option of
shared housing is it be the student
thinks it will be an opportunity to make
new friends is it see the student thinks
living in a shared house will be fun or
is it d the student is disappointed with
the option of sharing a house with other
students okay now what's our next step
now our next step is to bring up our
notes and we want to eliminate any
answers that don't match the speaker's
opinion okay remember you're looking for
answers that are obviously wrong so
let's pull up our question and our notes
again and take a moment to look at these
try to eliminate
any answers that you think are obviously
wrong
okay so what's our next step well
obviously our next step is to choose the
best answer okay now were you able to
pick an answer that you think is correct
okay hopefully you got it let's take a
look and the answer is d the student is
disappointed with the option of sharing
a house with other students so if you
take a look at our notes you can see
that they are not happy it's the only
option so that's why D makes the most
sense here okay hopefully that wasn't
too scary for you because now it's time
for you to do your own practice and
again remember if you don't already get
a pen and paper ready because you're
going to need to take notes alright
remember that our first step is to
listen and take notes all right are you
ready
here is your practice conversation you
and your roommate have a recycling bin
in your dormitory room don't you sure
why are you asked you need one no it's
not that I have one it's just that I
read in the campus paper today that the
dorms don't actually recycle anymore
that all the trash actually just goes to
the same place oh yeah I've got that
article too surely that can't be true
the University goes through so much
paper I know we throw away a lot every
week it can't be true that none of that
gets recycled what are the recycling
bins for well I don't know the writer of
the article blamed budget cuts but the
university never told us we weren't
recycling anymore you know you can't
always believe what you read maybe we
should investigate this I'd like to ask
the writer where they got the
information if it's true we need to do
something ok so hopefully you have some
good notes there in front of you
remember you're going to use your notes
to help eliminate any bad answer choices
and to help you choose the best answer
choice all right here is your question
okay if you haven't already go back
check out the question pause it see if
you can choose exactly which answer you
think is correct okay because I'm about
to give you the answer are you ready all
right the answer is B it could be false
so how did you go hopefully you were
able to use your notes to choose the
right answer and thank you again for
watching and remember that if you have
any questions about the TOEFL test take
a look at our website e to language comm
thank you again for watching and I'll
see you next time bye